Data Structures - INTRODUCTION
=====================
The first time I heard the compound of words "Data structures" stringed together I was probably a University student, I remember the topic was part of the last chapters in "Programming languages I" course. This was the first course that got me to write code during my University studies, and it happened during 3rd semester. The professor was good, but we got to a point during the semester that we had to rush every remaining topic in so we could cover it all, and data structures was a part of that rush, so I really didn't learn much, and I don't even remember how complex or easy the assignments were for that particular area. A sequence of bad decisions I took during my college education after that first encounter with Data structures helped me graduate - without learning anything about it -. I have to admit I probably graduated from college without having a clear picture of what the hell someone meant when they stringed those words together, and I remember with no pride that during my job as an IT support guy straight out when I graduated out of college, I could only think about some whiteboard and the professor explaining something with arrows and squares, somewhere along that picture I find the words "linked lists" and "Nodes" among others, then I learned Java, landed a job as a Jr. Software Developer and my interaction with the so called data structures came to be the understanding and utilization of the Collections framework, but that was about it, using ArrayList, HashMap, Sets, among others, and even so, my mind was always curious about the idea of going back to that white board distant picture but this time pay attention to that professor for once to see if my more mature self could perform better in that learning environment. That thought alone creates a bit of nostalgia mixed with a sense of inferiority that I seem to like inducing myself into on an often basis, even while writing this text, and although I like to contemplate most of the feelings that have a spectrum close to the one being emanated by nostalgia, I think the mixture with the inferiority complex doesn't suit well with one's persona, specially because it's important to work on oneself and get negative thoughts out of the equation (like I read yesterday in an instagram story from a fitness coach or something: you are the sum of your thoughts) and being honest with myself, after reading so many self help books I couldn't be blind anymore to the fact that, the one thing they all seem to agree upon is to learn how to own your present moment and stop feeling like a prisoner of your current situation, and sure I mean, why keep day dreaming about something when I can take action today? and so here I was, 7 years after graduating that I decided I wanted to learn more in depth about it and cover my learning experience in my blog.

The blog will have code examples written in Python, although my professor was teaching me C++ at the time, I happened to be learning Python when the idea of learning Data Structures stroke my head, at the end of the day I feel contempt with the idea of going back to that whiteboard moment and understanding my professor for once after so many years. Yes, that's the goal. The approach I'll take on documenting my learning journey will be to demonstrate textbook classic approaches instead of Pythonic solutions to the problems.

So to open this learning journey, I will throw one of those boring ass definitions of what a data structure is :
 A data structure in coding are agreed ways that computer scientist have found to be optimal (or at least the least worse) to store and handle data. You want your program to take as much data as possible and be efficient and quick at knowing what to do with it. Right now I'm thinking about my city and it's local transit department. They keep track of all the vehicles, plates and owners that are allowed to circulate in the city. Think about that for a moment and tell me if you were a random human being with no IT foundations that was assigned to create a system to access that data, wouldn't you want someone that claims to be a computer scientist to come help you, because they have studied ways to structure the data to solve that specific problem? I don't know about you, but I would feel relieved.